docs/tutorial/sections/overview.adoc, before:

== Overview

Helm is an excellent package management tool for Kubernetes, but it falls short when it comes to defining Kubernetes manifests.  Creating templates in Helm can be difficult to learn let alone master, and it provides no support for basic Kubernetes resources or configuration management.

=== Starter Helm chart

The following is the starter chart created by Helm when running `helm create my-new-chart` along with its issues:

include::snippets/example-helm-chart.adoc[]

Verbose::

The files are verbose, and assume a good understanding of the manifests required to deploy an application on Kubernetes.

Obtuse::

Go Template syntax (everything between double-brackets) and the supporting Sprig library is not very user friendly, but it's required knowledge to understand and change Helm templates.

Brittle::

Many common deployment practices aren't directly supported; e.g. mounting a ConfigMap or defining environment variables in a container.  Deployments across multiple environments aren't supported; e.g. during development or testing. This means structural changes will almost certainly be required.

It's code::

Helm templates are code.  This means Helm charts need to be tested in isolation from the application they are meant to deploy if they are modified in any meaningful way.

=== el-CICD Chart

el-CICD Chart was created with the intention of leveraging all the package management goodness Helm has to offer with the following quality-of-life productivity enhancements:

Simpler::

Defining and templating deployment definitions should be simple and easy.  Beginners should be able to quickly get to work with little effort.  Experts should be able to define very complex deployments without fighting the tool that will define it.  Users of any level of experience should be able to read deployment definitions and templates easily with minimal training.  Deployment definitions and templates should NOT require testing outside of the context of what is being deployed.  Templates should be easy, modular, and intuitive to define.

TIP: **In el-CICD Chart parlance, the collection of values.yaml file(s) are also referred to as __deployment definitions__.**

More concise::

Follow the https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don%27t_repeat_yourself[DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself) Principle,window=read-later] aggressively, and promote reuse of deployment definitions and templates.  As much as possible, define basic Kubernetes resources with reasonable defaults so deployment definitions and templates are confined as much as possible to the problem at hand.

Support configuration management::

Deployments of applications in different configurations and environments is standard practice whether in development or production; e.g. dev to test to prod, or deploying to different locales with different languages and/or regulatory regimes to support, respectively.  To that end, flexible configuration management within deployment definitions should be easily defined and supported.

Extensible::

Kubernetes is very extensible, as the abundance of https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/[Custom Resource Definitions,window=read-later] illustrates.  Deployment definitions should be able include all of them easily without requiring new Helm template code.

The following tutorial will demonstrate how el-CICD Chart realizes these enhancements.

Commit message:

updating and double-checking tutorial; removing variable matrices

docs/tutorial/sections/overview.adoc, after:

== Overview

Helm is an excellent package management tool for Kubernetes.  Deploying or removing an application on and off a Kubernetes cluster is handled very well by Helm.

Where Helm falls short is when it comes to templating Kubernetes manifests.  Creating Helm templates can be difficult to learn let alone master.

This tutorial will demonstrate how the el-CICD Chart can make defining Kubernetes manifests much easier for all involved while still taking advantage of Helm's package management functionality.

NOTE: el-CICD Chart embeds its templates inside Helm values.yaml file(s), and writing Helm templates are not required when using el-CICD Chart.  In order to avoid confusion with the word "template", el-CICD Chart values.yaml file(s) will be referred to as __deployment definitions__.

=== Starter Helm chart

The following is the starter chart created by Helm when running `helm create my-new-chart` along with its issues:

include::snippets/example-helm-chart.adoc[]

Verbose::

The files are verbose, and assume a good understanding of the manifests required to deploy an application on Kubernetes.

Obtuse::

Go Template syntax (everything between the double-brackets) and the supporting Sprig library is not very user friendly, but it's required knowledge to understand and modify Helm templates.

Values used to render the chart are defined in files separate from Helm templates, and structured far differently, which can make understanding what will rendered difficult.

No configuration management::

Configuration management is not supported by Helm.  Defining charts that can adapts across even a narrowly defined set of different deployments can be challenging.

It's code::

Helm templates are code; it constitutes a separate application.  This means Helm charts need to be tested in isolation from the application they are meant to deploy.  Helm charts acknowledge this by supporting a https://helm.sh/docs/topics/chart_tests/[built-in testing framework].

=== el-CICD Chart

el-CICD Chart was created with the intention of leveraging all the package management goodness Helm has to offer while making defining deployments easier.  In particular, the following design goals were set:

Helm centric::

No extra scripts or special commands for standard Helm deployments or templating should be needed.  el-CICD Chart should be able to be used anywhere Helm can be used, and alongside any other Helm chart either as the main chart or a subchart.

Easier::

Defining deployments should be done using plain YAML documents, with no extra language skills or libraries.

More concise::

Support the https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don%27t_repeat_yourself[DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself) Principle,window=read-later] aggressively to significantly reduce the amount of copying and pasting of boilerplate YAML.  For application developers, support reasonable defaults so deployment definitions are confined as much as possible to the application's needs.

Support configuration management::

Defining different configurations for the same set of deployment manifests (e.g. per locale, region, and/or development environment) should be easy and directly supported.

Extensible::

Kubernetes is very extensible, as the abundance of https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/[Custom Resource Definitions,window=read-later] illustrates.  el-CICD Chart should be able to render CRD's out-of-the-box without requiring new Helm template code.

The following tutorial will demonstrate how el-CICD Chart met each of these goals.
